


domain cell     {#dcel}
===========

[TOC]

- dcel model
- related architecture 
- dcel lifecycle

- interface architecture

- dcel structure
- database-analogy
- dcel-map
- dcel-mapcel hierarchy structure
- sql query strings for use in examples



dcel model
----------
2019-02-18 0610

dcel
  production instruction
  buffer
  map
  index



related architecture  
-------------------- {#architecture}
2019-02-20


  master vm 
  production instructions (PI)
    master ops
    vm instructions
  master context    // see footnote**
  modules (mod)
    virtual functions (vfn)
    virtual machines (vm)
  domain cells (dcel)


**master context - the os context from which the modules are drawn. in cosmos, this is the cascading os context.



dcel lifecycle        {#lifecycle}
--------------
2019-02-20

create prod instr. (PI) submit to master vm.

master vm runs instruction, uses master context, vfn's and vm's to execute sub-instr's. returns result in dcel.

dcel is now a controller for the product domain via REST, stream io, directory, and SQL API's.

dcel can be mapped by the master vm, using additional production operations. the map is saved within the dcel.



example: production

   mastervm_source("ssh://host/file");

master runs local source operation, which sets source module "ssh" and address. no vfn's are run. returns dcel w service and addr inside prodinstr.

   --> myDcel.prodinstr.{svc,addr}


example: REST

   
   buf = dcel_get( myDcel, &len );

the dcel controller uses the REST interface of the PI svc module, returning an atomic result in `buf,len`.

   --> {buf,len}


example: mapping

   mastervm_map(myDcel,"ox");

the master vm runs local map operation which finds the mapping interface of module "ox", which in turn modifies dcel's map and index in place.

   --> myDcel.{map,index}  // modified


example: directory

   dirh   = dcel_opendir(myDcel);
   dirent = dcel_readdir(dirh);
   ...
   dcel_closedir(dirh);

the dcel controller reads a dirent from myDcel.index, or passes through to PI svc module if mod provides a directory interface. (passthrough avoids duplicating a directory in dcel if it already exists on another source.)




source code architecture
------------------------
2019-02-23

 dcel.c
    dcel control
 frag.c,mfrag.c
    buf ctrl
 mapcel.c
    map ctrl
 mastervm_ops.c
    source()
    map()
    find()
    bind()
    grind()
 vm_instr.c
    vm_instr ctrl
 mastervm.c
    uses mastervm_ops
    runs vm_instr's
    makes dcel's
    manages modules
    manages vm's
 module_interface.h
    mapper ops
    uses svc_interfaces
 svc_interfaces.h
    REST,stream,directory,SQL
   

 






dcel database analogy   {#database-analogy}
----------------------------------
2017-10-07 1745

a dcel directory is a table
a dcel is a single row in a table
ruleid's are column names



## domain cell map: complex table ##  {#dcel-map}

2017-10-08 0730

a domain cell can be visualized as a single row in a table.  the columns of the table are layered and nested to reflect the mappings.


dcel production and service module
----------------------------------
(see elsewhere Production Instruction)

a dcel has two "halves"

- producer state
- mapper state

producer state
- module name
- prodfn type
- cmd
- args
- producer private state


mapper state
- maps
- indices
- buffers
- open file states
- analyzer private state


producer and mapper functions exist within the module.

file stream operations are provided by the module.

when the mapper is run, the mapper reads and writes the mapper state and when needed, uses the file stream operations from the producer.





domain cell is the searchable unit
----------------------------------

2017-10-11 2046

mapcel is not searchable; is a leaf of info about length and ruleid.

the mapcel is useful in conjunction with the map anchor and the frag to create a searchable map.



indices
-------

2018-05-04 0718

`prop` index of map generated by hiena scanner.  a single key may index multiple mapcels.

          abstract values (not mapped to any stream) are also kept in this index.

          hiena abstract value:

          - scanner_id
          - rule_id


          snafuFS abstract value:

          - attr
          - xattr


          cosmos abstract values:

          - exec helper reference




accessor functions
------------------

2017-10-15 0600

  child_list_add( dcel, dcel_ptr );

  child_index_add( dcel, ruleid, value, dcel );

  dcel *child_index_get( dcel, ruleid, value );

  prop_index_add( dcel, ruleid, dcel );

  dcel *prop_index_get( dcel, ruleid );

  find_state *find_mapcels( dcel, ruleid );

  index_state *index_mapcels( dcel );



dcel-mapcel hierarchy structure
-------------------------------

2017-10-06 2300

  dcel
    prod instr
    frag ptr          // frag map
    scanner id        // mapcel area
    rule id
    len
    map list[#]       // prop tab
        dcel ptr
    map index[$ruleid]
        dcel ptr
    map index build state
    dir list[#]       // child tab
        dcel ptr
    dir index[$ruleid]
        index[$value]
            dcel ptr list[#]
                dcel ptr
    dir index build state

  anchor
    mapcel index[$len]
      mapcel ptr

  frag
    anchor index[$off]
      anchor ptr
    child frag index[$off]
      frag ptr
    mfrag ptr
    start offset
    end offset

  /* 2017-10-16 eliminate mapcel */

  mapcel
    head anchor // move to frag
    tail anchor // move to frag
    scanner id  // move to 
    rule id
    len
    child list[#]
        mapcel ptr


sql query strings for use in examples
-----------------

2017-10-09 0615

  select "name" from "child";

  select "name" from "child" where "type" is like "synopsis";

  select "name" from "prop"




dcel and map scanners
---------------------

2017-10-12 1513

a dcel is a product of a production instruction.

when a map scanner generates a dcel within a map, it must create a production instruction.

ie:
the root dcel will be generated with a "source" production.

the mapper identifies a subcel, and generates a "select" production:

  select $src_dcel $scanner $ruleid $start_off $end_off

if the src_dcel is altered, the select production can be verified against a new map of the src_dcel.  if nothing changes within the map dcel, the dcel remains valid.


dcel validity: map and frag
-----------------------

validity is a balance between map and frag.  a dcel 





dcel and sql
------------

  select * from "child";
  select * from "prop";

an sql runs as a production instruction and returns a dcel as its output.

the output could be a new stream -- or rather appear as one by a sequence of frags.



dcel and readdir()
------------------

opendir() would produce an iterator to the dcel's raw child list.

  for each
  {
      d_ino  = each->mapcel;
      d_name = select("name", each->prop);
  }

d_name is a dcel.  you can get its value by using dcel_svc_read() or dcel_svc_getchar().


dcel and stream io
------------------

  fh = dcelfh_open( dcel );

  numbytes = dcelfh_read( buf, len, fh );

  dcelfh_close( fh );


dcelfh_open() will use the fragment system to identify one or more source modules for its fragments, then will open a handle to a module...

the media handle open procedure will...

locate the 'module' in the cosmos file system:

  cosmos_lookup( cosmos, access_path, module_name );


next, open a module handle and populate the functions...

  mod_hdl = {
    .dl = cosmos_dlopen( module ),
    .open = cosmos_dlsym( dl, "void *open(char *addr)" )
  };


next, open a 'media_handle'...

  media_hdl.open( mfrag.addr );


store it within the dcel_fh file handle object.

  fh.media_hdl = media_hdl;



concatenating dcel content
--------------------------

2017-10-12 1550

you can concatenate dcels in sequence by using a production instruction:

  select $dcel_1 $dcel_2 [...]



searching a dcel child list
---------------------------

2017-10-12

a dcel keeps a directory of dcels which represent children.

children can be selected by ptr or iterator.

  get(dcel,childptr);
  
  for each in dcel->child { ... };

getting a child by ptr returns an iterator which can be used to step forward or backward in the child list.


searching a dcel by child index
-------------------------------

2017-10-11 1558

dcels contain 0 or more child indexes.  these indexes correspond to members of the prop index of each child.  in other words, columns in the child table.

if the index does not exist it is create when queried.



searching a dcel for a property
-------------------------------

satisfies:
  select $prop_expr from "prop"


prop_expression:
   - a list of property ids
   - a single property id
   - a hierarchical property id
   - an ordinal property id

eg
  select "name" from "prop"
  select "name, size" from "prop"
  select "stat/atime" from "prop"
  select first "alias" from "prop"

the property id is expected to be a rule_id from one or more of the scanners which have been used to map the dcel.

a scanner can be explicitly requested:

  select "divine::name" from "prop"

if a property id does not match an existing property, it triggers a scan or an evaluation.

an evaluation:

a property id may match a scanner rule id or a scanner provided evaluation function.  The output of the function is the value of the property.  in this case the value might not be recorded explicitly in the source stream and is cached in the property index and removed if the dcel changes.



FUNCTION: dcel_find_mapcels()
-----------------------------

Returns a list of ptrs to dcels.

The dcels function as atomic units which encapsulate a mapcel and a fragment.

The production instruction which produces each dcel is iterative.

ProdInstr: find all matches to rule id within map of target dcel.

eg.

  find * from "prop" where $ruleid like $value

  might produce:

    dcel[0]
    dcel[1]
    dcel[2]

dcel[1]'s prod instr cannot be:

  find 2nd from "prop" where $ruleid like $value

because if the frag map got rearranged, the ordinal would change.

dcel[1]'s production instr could be:

  grind make_mapcel_dcel $mapcel $frag

if inputs $mapcel or $frag become invalid the production becomes invalid.



FUNCTION: index_mapcels()
-------------------------

inputs: dcel{ mapcel, frag }
outputs: index

  index
    reentrant state
    btree


ALGORITHM: 

for mapcel, read each mapcel in children list; produce dcel of each value and add to index at key: each->ruleid

each->value can be described by a dcel of {mapcel, new frag}

(each->value is generated rather than structured

where new frag is window frag on the fragment within the input dcel.

